# Data Acquisition for Generalizing Black-Box Models

All code to reproduce experiment results are marked with <ins>underline</ins>, and the help of parameters for code execution can be found in the *main* entry of each code. 

## Set up

Under the currect directory, three folder need to be set to keep outputs from experiments.

1. **log**: keep all output from logger.
    - config.yaml: model training, detector training, data split and shift. **config.yaml** under *config* folder is a template. Configs for all tasks are also in *config* folder.

2. **model**: keep new models, acquired data, updated detectors.   

3. available data: **data** directory contains indices of designed data shifts from raw datasets 

   - Raw datasets: 

    1. [Cifar-100](https://www.cs.toronto.edu/~kriz/cifar-100-python.tar.gz): Indicate the path to the downloaded zip in the "root" field of the config file

    2. [Core-50](http://bias.csr.unibo.it/maltoni/download/core50/core50_imgs.npz): the original "core50_imgs.npz" file has images compressed to 32x32 and sampled off 30 frames from each object and session. The new dataset is called "core.pkl". 

model_directory with the format of - (dataset name) _ task _ (other info) - is used to name all relevant outputs in **log**, **model**, and **data**. 

Examples of model_directory: core_object_resnet, cifar-4class

<!-- 4. **figure**: store some figures from check.py and stat_check.py -->

## Set up Source Models

<ins>**pretrain.py**: train source models and evaluate them before and after data shifts.</ins>

## Data Acquisition + New Model Generation

**utils/strategy.py**: acquisition strategy + workspace (source model, data splits, detector if needed.)

**utils/ood.py**: filter out irrelevant data from the data pool. build novelty detector (one-class SVM) in the validation set, and return detection accuracy.   

- If the precision is bigger than threshold,the proportion of target labels in filtered market, then market filtering should work.

<ins>**main.py** : run the acquisition.</ins>

<ins>**model_train.py** : build a model from acquired data.</ins>


## Test New Model

**utils/checker.py**: model ensemble methods

<ins>**test.py**: evaluate models after acquisition. </ins>


## Acquisition Statistics

<ins>**pretrain.py**</ins>: base model performance before and after data shifts; classification accuracy on c_w and c_\not{w} in detector

<ins>**seq_stat.py**</ins>: only run sequential strategy and return statistics of detection accuracy or misclassification in acquired data. 

<ins>**stat_check.py**</ins>: the distribution of acquired data; test data; final detector from sequential acquisition. 

<ins>**data_valuation.py**</ins>: examine the relation between U-WS and U-WSD. 

<ins>**threshold.py** : training, testing, and statistic analysis of experiments on utility threshold.</ins>

## Invalid Acquired Data

Under **optimal_check**, <ins>**pretrain.py**</ins> builds optimal models, <ins>**stat_check.py**</ins> and <ins>**threshold.py**</ins> return the stat of invalid acquired data.

## Dataset Generation

* For a full experiment result reproduction, it's recommended to use the current data splits in **data**, as the random seed of generating this folder is fixed only lately.

Shifted data splits are generated first by split raw dataset into 4 splits (train, test, validation and data pool), and then make data shifts by removing some labels from train split. By far, we first save the indices of 4 data splits and statistics for data normalization into **init_data** directory. Next we save data shifts indices into **data** directoty. 

<ins>**data_setup.py**</ins>: use "save mode" parameter to choose which indices to save (split or shift). 

Preliminary processing of Core 50 can be found in *Basic Process*
1. **core.ipynb**: 'core50_imgs.npz' -> resize to 32x32 and transform labels -> 'core_data.pkl'
    - An [auxlirary file](https://vlomonaco.github.io/core50/data/paths.pkl) is used to extract labels from "core50_imgs.npz"

2. <ins>**meta.py**</ins>: sample frames from indicated categories from Core-50. ('core_data.pkl' -> sample frames -> 'core.pkl')

## Visualization

All the figures reported in the paper are generated by **visualization/plot.ipynb**. 

